New how-to guide on origins (#416)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-docs: v3/how-to-guides/02-pallet-design/h-origins/index.mdx

---
title: Define a custom origin as an account ID
slug: /how-to-guides/v3/pallet-design/account-id-origin
version: 3.0
section: how to guides
category: pallet design
difficulty: 2
---

> This guide goes over a simple way to assign an account ID to an origin. This origin could be used 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains a simple way to assign an account ID to an origin. 
```

> from within the pallet its defined in but also in any other pallet it is tightly coupled to. This could

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you assign an account to the origin, you can use the origin in the pallet where it is defined in or in any other pallet that is tightly coupled to the pallet where the origin account is defined.
```

> be used as the basis for creating similar origin capabilities as FRAME's democracy pallet, for example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining a custom origin is particularly useful if you want to:

* Create an origin with root-level permissions that can then be used to invoke specific functions.
* Implement a function that can only be called by the origin defined in specific pallet.

> implementing a [special root origin](/rustdocs/latest/pallet_democracy/index.html#root).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Use cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Create a special origin with Sudo-like access to specific dispatchables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Implement a dispatchable that can only be called by the origin defined from another pallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Before you begin

Verify the following requirements:

> - Read about Substrate's [origin system](/v3/runtime/origins/) to understand what they are and ways to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You are familiar with the Substrate's [origin system](/v3/runtime/origins/)  and how origins are used.
```

- You already have a working pallet and dispatchable to implement a custom origin for.

## Steps

> 1. Start by adding an Orgin type to your pallet's `Config` trait. This type will be used when you implement 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add an Origin type to your pallet's `Config` trait. 
```

>    your pallet for your runtime:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

  ```rust
  pub trait Config: frame_system::Config {
      // -- snip -- 
      type Origin: From<Origin>;
      #[pallet::constant]
      type SpecialAccountId: Get<Self::AccountId>;
  }
  ```

>   Next, we'll create the enum for our custom origin. This will be used 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Create an enum for the custom origin. 
```

>   when we implement `EnsureOrigin` on our custom origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Declare the enum and specify the origin name you want to use, for example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Declare the enum and specify the origin name you want to use.
```

>   

Reviewer: For example, the following code declare the enum for the origin named `MyOrigins`:

  ```rust
  // Our origins for this pallet.
  #[derive(PartialEq, Eq, Clone, RuntimeDebug, Encode, Decode, TypeInfo)]
  pub enum MyOrigins<AccountId> {
    SpecialOrigin(AccountId),
    Other
  }
  ```
  
1. Implement AccountId for MyOrigins.

  ```rust
  impl<AccountId> From<Option<AccountId>> for MyOrigins<AccountId> {
	fn from(s: Option<AccountId>) -> MyOrigins<AccountId> {
		match s {
			Some(who) => MyOrigins::SpecialOrigin(who),
			None => MyOrigins::Other,
      }
    }
  }
  ```

1. Create a struct to implement [`EnsureOrigin`](/rustdocs/latest/frame_support/traits/trait.EnsureOrigin.html) 
   on `MyOrigins`:

  ```rust
  pub struct EnsureAccountOrigin<Who, AccountId>(sp_std::marker::PhantomData<(Who, AccountId)>);
  ```

> 1. Write the implementation of `try_origin` and `succesful_origin` for our custom struct:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Write the implementation of `try_origin` and `successful_origin` for the custom struct:
```

  ```rust
  impl<
      O: Into<Result<MyOrigins<AccountId>, O>> + From<MyOrigins<AccountId>>,
		  Who: SortedMembers<AccountId>,
		  AccountId: PartialEq + Clone + Ord + Default,        
      > EnsureOrigin<O> for EnsureAccountOrigin<Who, AccountId>

      type Success = AccountId;
      fn try_origin(o: O) -> Result<Self::Success, O> {
        o.into().and_then(|o| match o {
          RawOrigin::Signed(ref who) if Who::contains(who) => Ok(who.clone()),
          r => Err(O::from(r)),
        })
      }

      #[cfg(feature = "runtime-benchmarks")]
      fn successful_origin() -> O {
        O::from(MyOrigins::Root)
      }
    }
  ```

>   In the above implementation, we're using `try_origin` from `EnsureOrigin` to ensure the origin matches what we specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This implementation uses `try_origin` from `EnsureOrigin` to ensure the origin matches what you specify in the configuration trait for the pallet.
In this example, the implementation specifies the origin to match as `SpecialOrigin`.
```
I'm not sure that's quite right.

>   in our pallet's configuration trait, i.e. `SpecialOrigin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   We have the basis to start using `SpecialAccountId` as our custom origin. Before using it in our pallet's dispatchables,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You now have the basis to use `SpecialAccountId` as the custom origin. 
  Before using it in the pallet's dispatchables, you need to specify what this account ID is for the runtime.
```

>   we'll first need to specify what this account ID is for our runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. In `runtime/src/lib.rs`, add the [`ord_parameter_types`](/rustdocs/latest/frame_support/macro.ord_parameter_types.html) macro 

Reviewer: Maybe two steps:
1. open the file.
2. Add the macro
